---
title: "Hands on with Brave Browser"
date: "2018-03-06T12:00:00-04:00"
url: "/posts/brave-browser"
categories:
- privacy
tags:
- brave
- web browser
- firefox
- vivaldi
---
# Brave, the new Firefox?

I've been using the [Brave](https://www.brave.com) browser as my full-time web
browser for two weeks now, primarily version 0.21.18. It's easy to tell the
software is not yet at version 1.0, and although I'm not ready for this to
replace [Vivaldi](https://vivaldi.com), I really want it to.

Brave is fast. Really fast. It has built-in adblocking and anti-fingerprinting
technology. Previously, I've relied on [uBlock
Origin](https://github.com/gorhill/uBlock/) and [Privacy
Badger](https://www.eff.org/privacybadger) for adblocking and
anti-fingerprinting. The same ads and trackers are blocked using Brave, but what
I really enjoy is the metric that Brave presents on each new tab:

![Brave Stats]({{site.url}}/images/2018/03-06-1.png)

I think Brave is set to disrupt the browser landscape the same way Firefox did
back in 2004. It aims to solve similar web woes much in the same way Firefox
did:

* disrupt the current champion (now Chrome, then Internet Explorer)
* advocate for the user
* introduce new technology to revolutionize the web (now BAT, then the gecko
  rendering engine)

# Privacy

Paradoxically, I'm something of a privacy nut. I believe privacy online is dead,
but that won't prevent me from attempting to maintain some shred of it. Where
other browsers have offered extensions as a means of maintaining privacy, what
strikes me about Brave is that it's part of their core mission - it's front and
center when you [visit their site](https://www.brave.com). And they've the chops
to back it up - Brave was founded by [Brendan Eich](https://brendaneich.com/),
the co-founder of Mozilla and Firefox, and the creator of JavaScript. If anyone
has web credentials to back up a bold new browser, it's this guy.

I've inspected the network traffic sent by this browser and have not noticed any
sort of phoning-home or other shady activity. I originally gravitated toward
Vivaldi because that browser exhibited the same behavior. For a lark, try
proxying traffic of Internet Explorer, Firefox, or Chrome. See how much
information is collected about your use of those browsers, *especially* IE and
Chrome.

# Ads and the blockchain

Oh, did I mention Brave also wants to combat the online advertising model that
has resulted in a race to the bottom, leaving end users with
[annoying](https://www.pcworld.com/article/139613/article.html),
[malicious](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malvertising), and
[privacy-invading](https://mashable.com/2017/10/19/online-ads-track-location-surveillance/#px7tAaTL6mqR)
advertisements? The online advertising model hasn't changed much in the 20+
years I've been online, but Brave seeks to combat that using the blockchain.

Blockchain. This buzzword is now as omnipresent as machine learning and
artificial intelligence. Originally, I dismissed blockchain as its only
implementation at the time was Bitcoin. I assumed the governments of the world
would squash Bitcoin as soon as it began to show a hint of a threat to fiat
currency. While the jury's still out on that one, I've become very interested in
the [Basic Attention Token (BAT)](https://basicattentiontoken.org/).

Brave is not only the Browser developed by the same company putting forth the
BAT, it will have a built-in wallet. Users will have the ability to earn BAT for
opting into privacy-protecting advertisements. This appears to be lucrative for
advertisers, as they will have a captive audience that willingly wants to view
their advertisements. It's also lucrative for users like you and me, because we
receive compensation for our time while browsing advertisements! As someone who's
been a life-long opponent of advertising, this possible relationship between
advertiser and user, facilitated by BAT, is extremely interesting to me and I
will be watching these developments, regardless of whether I stick with the
Brave browser in the long run.

# Brave's future

As I mentioned earlier, Brave is still a young browser, and it shows.  While
it's great that Brave makes use of Chromium, the rich Chrome extension ecosystem
is not fully supported by Brave. As of version 0.21.18, Brave only supports
**nine** extensions . Fortunately, one of those is for 1password, my password
manager, so Brave meets my absolute minimum requirement.  Heavy Evernote users,
such as myself, will have to wait for the Evernote Web Clipper extension to
become available. This is nearly a deal-breaker for me, but my hope is that more
extension support will roll out in time. It's clearly not enough to dissuade me
from using Brave, as I have for the past two weeks without falling back on
Vivaldi!
